At Cargill, we all know the
importance of keeping our plants
and facilities safe. But we
already closely follow
regulations. And we have plenty
of rules and regulations to
protect us from accidents,
right?
Well, this is not simply about
following the law but having a
strong companywide foundation to
prevent hazardous processes from
causing harm.
You're about to see how that
foundation is essential for
everything we do.
This is Process Safety
Management,
Simply Stated. Meet Haven.
She's an engineer who often
deals with hazardous processes
at her plant.
She works with materials and in
situations that have the
potential to put her team, the
community, or the environment in
danger.
She knows that there must be a
management system in place to
help handle risks such as
spills, explosions, or worse,
death.
Cargill, as a company knows this
too, because we operate a number
of complex processes all around
the world that have the
potential to cause harm.
Process safety management is the
system that helps prevent the
releases of energy or chemicals
that can lead to injury, death
or harm to the environment.
Let's say we're dealing with a
large container of flammable
liquids in an above ground
storage tank.
Because it has the potential to
create a large fire or
explosion, this process should
always be kept in control and
completely contain the liquid.
It will be safe and cause no
harm if we can be sure of this.
Safeguards or layers of
protection are put into place to
keep the process in control or
minimize the impact when it
loses control.
These can be procedures,
personal protective equipment,
systems, or devices that are
designed specifically to prevent
the escalation of the problem.
In our example, these
preventative and mitigating
barriers didn't just happen
overnight.
They're developed and supported
by a management system that we
follow. And our culture of
safety, which helps minimize our
risks in hazardous processes.
These management systems
identify the hazards involved in
a particular process.
From there, they evaluate the
risks, what could happen if
something went wrong.
Lastly, these systems control
risk to an acceptable level.
Our management system contains
12 elements specifically created
to guide us as we create and
manage safe processes.
These steps help us do things
like create safe work practices,
investigate incidents, and
constantly be on the lookout for
areas of improvement.
As in our example with the tank
of flammable liquid, each
element weaves together for a
protective net against
catastrophic events.
This management system is
incredibly important to our
culture of safety at Cargill,
and it's important to know that
we need to follow it very
closely and consistently for it
to be effective.
It's our responsibility to
ensure our employees,
communities, and environment
stay safe.
A strong safety culture leads to
strong process safety management
practices. And strong process
safety management practices
protect us and everyone around
us.
The quality of the safety
environment is directly related
to our level of operational
discipline.
Operational discipline is simply
doing what you say you will do.
Low operational discipline
creates an environment that's
bad for the overall safe
operation of hazardous
processes.
Over time, low operational
discipline degrades the
management systems that provide
safeguards and the safety
systems become less and less
reliable.
High operational discipline can
be established and maintained
with strong leadership, support,
knowledge of the process and its
hazards, and knowledge of the
systems required to manage these
risks.
It enables us to manage the many
risks in our facilities so that
our people, our communities, and
our customers thrive.
Haven knows that the stakes are
high, but our risk-based safety
culture helps keep us safe.
We must always be vigilant and
keep this system in mind every
step of the way.
This has been Process Safety
Management, Simply Stated.